Research and Data Pack Update (#588)
ldtteam/MinecoloniesWiki: source/systems/research.md

| 4                    | 4                        |
| 5 and higher         | 5                        |

> You can only have one column 6 research in each of the Combat, Civilian, and Technology trees.  To unlock a different column 6 research for that tree, you must undo the completed one first.

Reviewer: Only one space after a full stop

| Symbol | Description |
| ------ | ----------- |

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_blocked.png" alt="Blocked Research"> | Research can be **Blocked**, either by unfinished prerequisite research, by a completed blocking research, or because the research tree has another column 6 research already active. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_blocked.png" alt="Blocked Research"> | A research can be **blocked**, either by an unfinished prerequisite research, by a completed blocking research, or because the research tree has another column 6 research already active. |
```

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_locked.png" alt="Locked Research"> | **Locked** research requires a building or buildings, or other unrelated research, before it can be started. | 

Reviewer: "A **locked** research"

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_unlocked.png" alt="Unlocked Research"> | **Unlocked** research has all colony requirements met, but requires an item or items. **These items must be in the player inventory.** | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_unlocked.png" alt="Unlocked Research"> | An **unlocked** research has all colony and research requirements met, but requires an item or items. **These items must be in the player's inventory.** | 
```

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_ready.png" alt="Available Research"> | **Available** research is ready to begin. Clicking the title of the research will consume the items from the player's inventory. |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_ready.png" alt="Available Research"> | An **available** research is ready to begin. Clicking the title of the research will consume the items from the player's inventory and start the research. |  
```

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_progress.png" alt="Progressing Research"> | **Progressing** research is your Researcher's current focus. This research will show its current progression, and a rough estimate of remaining time to completion. Progressing research can be canceled by clicking the research title and then clicking the Cancel pop up. Cancelling research will **not** refund material costs. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_progress.png" alt="Progressing Research"> | A **progressing** research is being worked on currently. This research will show its current progression and a rough estimate of the remaining time to completion. A progressing research can be canceled by clicking the research title and then clicking the Cancel pop up. Cancelling a research will **not** refund the material costs. | 
```
"current focus" implies they can only do one research at a time, imo

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_complete.png" alt="Complete Research"> | **Complete** research has been fully unlocked by your University, and automatically applies its effects to the colony and colonists. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_complete.png" alt="Complete Research"> | A **complete** research has been fully unlocked by your University. Its effects have been applied to the colony and colonists. | 
```

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_or.png" alt="Exclusive Research"> | Some researches are **Exclusive**, requiring such extreme focus that they aren't compatible with each other. Only one Research from a specific **or** selection may be learned in a colony at a time. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_or.png" alt="Exclusive Research"> | Some researches are **exclusive**, requiring such extreme focus that they aren't compatible with each other. Only one research from a specific **or** selection may be learned in a colony at a time. | 
```

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_undo.png" alt="Undo Research"> | Completed exclusive researches, or research that depend on exclusives, or tier 6 researches, may be **Undone**. Undoing research does *not* refund the research costs, and consumes the displayed item. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/university_research_undo.png" alt="Undo Research"> | Completed exclusive researches, researches that depend on exclusives, or tier 6 researches, may be **undone**. Undoing a research does *not* refund the research costs and consumes the displayed item. | 
```
Not all researches can be undone?

Author: At the least for now. There's likely always going to be some limitations, because the devs want it so only research without started descendants can be undone, but this one's mostly a tradeoff between limiting the system too much and people accidentally undoing research.  So far, the only excluded case people have asked about is the Night Owl research line, and that honestly seems like it's a better compromise to be 'stuck' lighting your colony up better.

The +27 inventory slot research also can't be undone, even though it'd otherwise be eligible.  I'm not sure what the right behavior for a shrinking inventory should be, but whatever it is, it's not implemented.

Reviewer: maybe say what *can't* be undone then, imo it's a little confusing atm

| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_complete.png" alt="Complete Research"> | A **complete** research has been fully unlocked by your University. Its effects have been applied to the colony and colonists. | 
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_or.png" alt="Exclusive Research"> | Some researches are **exclusive**, requiring such extreme focus that they aren't compatible with each other. Only one research from a specific **or** selection may be learned in a colony at a time. | 
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_undo.png" alt="Undo Research"> | Some completed researches may be **undone**, if they block another research in some way, do not have completed research that depend on them, and are not marked with a redstone torch as irreversible. Undoing a research does *not* refund the research costs and consumes the displayed item. | 

## Below is a description of each of the researches:

**Note:** Researches below are *not* cumulative unless stated otherwise.

- Branches
  - [Combat](#combat)
  - [Civilian](#civilian)

>   - [Technology](#technology)

Reviewer: add Unlockables here

| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_progress.png" alt="Progressing Research"> | A **progressing** research is being worked on currently. This research will show its current progression and a rough estimate of the remaining time to completion. A progressing research can be canceled by clicking the research title and then clicking the Cancel pop up. Cancelling a research will **not** refund the material costs. | 
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_complete.png" alt="Complete Research"> | A **complete** research has been fully unlocked by your University. Its effects have been applied to the colony and colonists. | 
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_or.png" alt="Exclusive Research"> | Some researches are **exclusive**, requiring such extreme focus that they aren't compatible with each other. Only one research from a specific **or** selection may be learned in a colony at a time. | 

> | <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_undo.png" alt="Undo Research"> | Some completed researches may be **undone**, if they block another research in some way, do not have completed research that depend on them, and are not marked with a redstone torch as irreversible. Undoing a research does *not* refund the research costs and consumes the displayed item. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/research_undo.png" alt="Undo Research"> | Some completed researches may be **undone** if they block another research in some way, do not have a completed research that depend on them, and are not marked with a redstone torch as irreversible. Undoing a research does *not* refund the research costs and consumes the displayed item. | 
```

| Provost | Duelist | Combat Academy level 5; 16 diamonds | Increases Knights' armor by 50% |
| Improved Evasion | Evasion | Archery level 5; 16 diamonds | Increases Archers' armor by 50% |
| Steel Armor | Iron Armor | Town Hall level 5; 64 iron ingots | Increases Guards' armor's durability by 50% |

> | Plate Armor | Iron Armor | Blacksmith level 4; 32 iron ingots | Blacksmith Learns Plate Armor Recipes |

Reviewer: No title case for the wiki descriptions
`Blacksmith learns [plate armor](../../source/items/platearmor) recipes` prolly

> | Plate Armor | Iron Armor | Blacksmith level 4; 32 iron ingots | Blacksmith learns [plate armor](../../source/items/platearmor) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Plate Armor | Iron Armor | Blacksmith level 4; 32 iron ingots | Blacksmith learns [plate armor](../../source/items/platearmor) recipes |
```

<br>

#### First Column

| Name | Requirements | Effects |
| ---- | ------------ | ------- |
| Biodegradable | [Farm](../../source/buildings/farm&field) at least level 3; 64 bone meal | Unlocks the [Composter's Hut](../../source/buildings/composter) |
| Hitting Iron! | Mine at least level 3; an anvil | Unlocks the [Blacksmith's Hut](../../source/buildings/blacksmith) |
| More Scrolls | Enchanter at least level 3; 64 Lapis Lazuli, 64 Paper, 1 Ancient Tome | [Enchanter](../../source/buildings/enchanter) Learns Scroll Recipes to Locate Workers and Summon Guards |
| Stone Cake | [Mine](../../source/buildings/mine) at least level 3; 64 chiseled stone bricks | Unlocks the [Stonemason's Hut](../../source/buildings/stonemason) |
| Woodwork | [Forester's Hut](../../source/buildings/forester) at least level 3; 64 oak planks | Unlocks the [Sawmill](../../source/buildings/sawmill) |
| Hot! | Mine at least level 2; 4 lava buckets | Unlocks the [Smeltery](../../source/buildings/smeltery) |

#### Second Column

| Name | Prerequisites | Requirements | Effects |
| ---- | ------------- | ------------ | ------- |

> | Podzol Chance | Biodegradable | Composter's Hut at least level 2; 8 Podzol | [Composter](../../source/buildings/composter) Get +5% more Podzol |

Reviewer: description needs fixing and a mention on the composter page

| What Is This Speed? | Heavy Machinery | 1024 redstone dust | Increases colonists' block breaking speed by 100% |

#### Sixth Column

You can only have one sixth column research unlocked at a time!

| Name | Prerequisites | Requirements | Effects |
| ---- | ------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| Magic Compost | Fertilizer | 2048 wheat seeds | Increases Farmers' output by 200% |
| Diamond Coated | Steel Bracing | 128 diamonds | Increases colonists' tools' durabilty by 90% |
| Madness! | Seems Automatic | 1024 iron ingots | Increases colonists' block placing speed by 200% |
| Motherlode | Amazing Veins | 64 diamond ore | Miner produces 200% more ores |
| Rainman | RTM | 27 buckets of salmon | Workers work during rain and storms |
| Heavily Loaded | Loaded | 256 emeralds | Adds 27 slots to colonists' inventories. **This research can not be undone.** |
| Lightning | What Is This Speed? | 2048 redstone dust | Increases colonists' block breaking speed by 200% |

### Unlockables
<br>
<img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/unlockables.png" class="img-fluid mx-auto" alt="University Unlockables GUI Page">
<br>

> Unlockables are a special research tree, consisting of research that other colonists discover as the colony grows and progresses. This branch will only display once at least one research is available, and research on this branch will complete instantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlockables are a special research tree, consisting of researchs that other colonists discover as the colony grows and progresses. This branch will only display once at least one research is available, and research on this branch will complete instantly.
```

#### First Column

| Name         | Requirements             | Effects |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | ------- |

> | String Mesh  | Sifter at least level 1 | Fletcher learns the String Mesh recipe |

Reviewer: links to the meshes, sifter, and fletcher here (for the other unlockables as well)

Reviewer: sifter, or sifter's hut?

| Biodegradable | [Farm](../../source/buildings/farm&field) at least level 3; 64 bone meal | Unlocks the [Composter's Hut](../../source/buildings/composter) |
| Hitting Iron! | Mine at least level 3; 1 anvil | Unlocks the [Blacksmith's Hut](../../source/buildings/blacksmith) |
| More Scrolls |  [Enchanter's Tower](../../source/buildings/enchantertower) at least level 3; 64 paper, 1 [ancient tome](../../source/items/ancient_tome), 64 lapis lazuli | Lets the [Enchanter](../../source/workers/enchanter) craft the [Spatial Guard Reinforcements Scroll](../../source/items/scrolls) and the [Worker-Where-Are-You Scroll](../../source/items/scrolls) |
| Stone Cake | [Mine](../../source/buildings/mine) at least level 3; 64 chiseled stone bricks | Unlocks the [Stonemason's Hut](../../source/buildings/stonemason) |
| Woodwork | [Forester's Hut](../../source/buildings/forester) at least level 3; 64 oak planks | Unlocks the [Sawmill](../../source/buildings/sawmill) |
| Hot! | Mine at least level 2; 4 lava buckets | Unlocks the [Smeltery](../../source/buildings/smeltery) |

#### Second Column

| Name | Prerequisites | Requirements | Effects |
| ---- | ------------- | ------------ | ------- |

> | Podzol Chance | Biodegradable | Composter's Hut at least level 2; 8 Podzol | [Composter](../../source/buildings/composter) Get +5% more Podzol |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Podzol Chance | Biodegradable | Composter's Hut at least level 2; 8 Podzol | The [Composter](../../source/buildings/composter) has a 5% greater chance to get podzol |
```
Also a mention on the composter page

Reviewer: (also for the II research ofc)

| What Is This Speed? | Heavy Machinery | 1024 redstone dust | Increases colonists' block breaking speed by 100% |

#### Sixth Column

You can only have one sixth column research unlocked at a time!

| Name | Prerequisites | Requirements | Effects |
| ---- | ------------- | ------------ | ------- |
| Magic Compost | Fertilizer | 2048 wheat seeds | Increases Farmers' output by 200% |
| Diamond Coated | Steel Bracing | 128 diamonds | Increases colonists' tools' durabilty by 90% |
| Madness! | Seems Automatic | 1024 iron ingots | Increases colonists' block placing speed by 200% |
| Motherlode | Amazing Veins | 64 diamond ore | Miner produces 200% more ores |
| Rainman | RTM | 27 buckets of salmon | Workers work during rain and storms |
| Heavily Loaded | Loaded | 256 emeralds | Adds 27 slots to colonists' inventories. **This research can not be undone.** |
| Lightning | What Is This Speed? | 2048 redstone dust | Increases colonists' block breaking speed by 200% |

### Unlockables
<br>
<img src="../../assets/images/gui/university/unlockables.png" class="img-fluid mx-auto" alt="University Unlockables GUI Page">
<br>

> Unlockables are a special research tree, consisting of researches that other colonists discover as the colony grows and progresses. This branch will only display once at least one research is available, and research on this branch will complete instantly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlockables are a special research tree, consisting of researches that other colonists discover as the colony grows and progresses. This branch will only display once at least one research is available, and researches on this branch will complete instantly.
```

#### First Column

| Name         | Requirements             | Effects |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | ------- |

> | String Mesh  | Sifter's Hut at least level 1 | [Fletcher](../../source/workers/fletcher) learns the String Mesh recipe |

Reviewer: Links to the Sifter's Hut and the meshes too please (sifter's hut only on the first one, meshes for all)
